[IMP] l10n_vn: SInvoice documentation (#11372)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/vietnam.rst

  and :guilabel:`Country`.

   - In the :guilabel:`Street` field, enter the street name, number, and any additional address
     information.
   - In the :guilabel:`Street 2` field, enter the neighborhood.

- :guilabel:`Tax ID`: The tax identificaiton number

.. _vietnam/sinvoice:

E-invoice integration with S-Invoice
====================================

S-Invoice_  is an e-invoice service platform provided by Viettel, one of the biggest e-invocie service provider in Vietnam.
Odoo supports integration with S-invoice to submit the invoices generated in Odoo.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Vietnam - E-invoicing module` must be installed to submit invoices to S-invoice.

.. _vietnam/sinvoice/setup:

Set-up
------

.. _vietnam/sinvoice/setup/registration:

S-Invoice Registration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To send electronic invoices to S-Invoice, you first need to register to the S-Invoice portal to confirm the package, choose
the invoice template and issue a legal notice for the chosen template.

#. Go to S-Invoice_ and :guilabel:`Log in` on the portal.

.. note::
   To create an account, contact :guilabel:`S-Invoice` directly on the portal.

> #. Follow the instruction of S-Invoice to choose the invoice template and issue a legal notice of the template chosen.

Author: Thank you, I will add the information needed to login and also the steps to add a template and a legal notice.
But I am not so sure as to how much detail this should go into. Does it need to be like how we explain features of Odoo or simply guiding them to the relevant menu suffices?

> #. Follow the instruction of S-Invoice to choose the invoice template and issue a legal notice of the template chosen.

Reviewer: @kidoodoo I think the information should be complete enough for the user to complete all the different steps successfully. Does that seem okay to you? ;)

> #. Follow the instruction of S-Invoice to choose the invoice template and issue a legal notice of the template chosen.

Author: @afma-odoo Thank you!
One last question on my end on this is that there will be an account manger from SInvoice side and there also is a documentation of SInvoice stating the steps needed (But only in Vietnamese).

Is it something that we could forward to the official documentation of SInvoice or something that we have to still write down the steps or both?

When I refer to the outlook calendar sync doc, it seems to do both, so just want to make sure of this.

Will proceed based on your thoughts! Thank you always!

> #. Follow the instruction of S-Invoice to choose the invoice template and issue a legal notice of the template chosen.

Reviewer: @kidoodoo Yes, you can add a "See also" admonition block to add the official documentation, even if it's only in Vietnamese. Here's the info in the documentation guidelines: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/18.0/contributing/documentation/rst_guidelines.html#alert-blocks-admonitions
https://www.odoo.com/documentation/18.0/contributing/documentation/rst_guidelines.html#contributing-rst-hyperlinks
So you can do both.
I'm not sure I understand the "account manager from SInvoice" part. Can you tell me a little bit more about it? Thanks 😊

> #. Follow the instruction of S-Invoice to choose the invoice template and issue a legal notice of the template chosen.

Author: @afma-odoo Thank you for the prompt reply!
Will work on them.

For the "Account manager from SInvoice", each account holder of SInvoice has an account manager to support the account holder to be able to use SInvoice portal.

But I think it makes sense we add both like you mentioned above, will work on it accordingly and push it!

> #. Follow the instruction of S-Invoice to choose the invoice template and issue a legal notice of the template chosen.

Reviewer: @kidoodoo Thanks for the clarification. Yes, that information is valuable and should be included in the documentation!

Thank you for the update!

#. Add :guilabel:`S-Invoice Templates` by going to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Templates`.

#. Click :guilabel:`New` to create a new template and add :guilabel:`Template code` and :guilabel:`Template Invoice Type`.

   .. important::
      For the :guilabel:`Template code`, input the code used by Sinvoice excluding any other information in the template name.

      .. example::
         If the invoice template is named `1/001 - Hóa đơn GTGT - ND123`, input `1/001` for :guilabel:`Template code`.

#. Add :guilabel:`Ivnoice Symbols` by selection. New symbol is available for creation directly or under
   :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Symbol`.

   .. important::
      Make sure that the :guilabel:`Address` and :guilabel:`Tax ID` of the company contact and the customer's contact is
      filled in properly.

.. _vietnam/sinvoice/workflow:

Workflow
--------

.. _vietnam/sinvoice/workflow/sending:

Create an invoice
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Invoices can be sent to MyInvois once they have been confirmed. To do so, follow the
:ref:`invoice sending <accounting/invoice/sending>` steps, and in the :guilabel:`Send` window,

> enable the :guilabel:`Send to Sinvoice` option and click :guilabel:`Send & Print`.

Author: @afma-odoo The exact button is 'Send to Sinvoice'.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2a2a64b6-406c-472f-b03b-506bae56f681)

Since all the buttons and info inside Odoo is displayed as "SInvoice", I will convert all "S-Invoice" and "Sinvoice" to "SInvoice"

   :guilabel:`Invoice template name` and other optional information to set the template, and click
   :guilabel:`Update`.

.. _vietnam/sinvoice/setup/sinvoice/symbol:

Invoice symbol creation
***********************

On the left side of the main screen, click :guilabel:`Invoice symbol` menu under
:guilabel:`Release management`. Click :guilabel:`Add new` and choose the
:guilabel:`Invoice template`, :guilabel:`Status` and add :guilabel:`Invoice symbol`. Status must be
:guilabel:`Active` to activate the symbol. Choose the remaining options applicable, and click
:guilabel:`Record` to save.

.. image:: vietnam/sinvoice-set-up-symbol.png
   :alt: SInvoice symbol set-up

.. _vietnam/sinvoice/setup/sinvoice/notice:

Legal notice issuance
*********************

#. On the eTax-electronic-tax-system_ page, click :guilabel:`Business` and :guilabel:`Login`.

   .. note::
      To create an account, click :guilabel:`Register` instead of login.

#. After a successful login, click :guilabel:`Online declaration` under :guilabel:`Tax declaration`
   menu. On the :guilabel:`Online declaration` menu, select `TB01/AC - Thông báo phát hành hóa đơn` and
   click :guilabel:`Continue`.

   .. Note::

>       The business needs to register for `TB01/AC - Thông báo phát hành hóa đơn` to select it.

Author: Hello~
On the government portal, the business should have registered for `TB01/AC - Thông báo phát hành hóa đơn` so that it appears on the selection list to choose from. If the business did not apply, the option will not exist for the user to choose.

I have updated the explanation accordingly, thank you

#. Enter :guilabel:`Ward/Commune information` and click :icon:`fa-ellipsis-h` to choose the
   :guilabel:`Invoice type` to create a release notification.
#. On the declaration form, fill in the following information.

   - :guilabel:`Denominator`
   - :guilabel:`Symbol`
   - :guilabel:`Quantity`
   - :guilabel:`From`
   - :guilabel:`To`
   - :guilabel:`Start date of use`
   - :guilabel:`Name of printing company/software provider`:
     `TẬP ĐOÀN CÔNG NGHIỆP - VIỄN THÔNG QUÂN ĐỘI`
   - :guilabel:`Tax code of printing company/software provider`: `0100109106`
   - :guilabel:`Legal representative`: Name of the director

   Choose the :guilabel:`Tax authority receiving the notification`, and click
   :guilabel:`Complete declaration`. Use USB token for authentication and click
   :guilabel:`Sign and submit`.
#. Go to :guilabel:`Declaration` under :guilabel:`Search` menu to select the declaration for
   `TTB01/AC - Thông báo phát hành hóa đơn`, and click :guilabel:`Search`. Find the declaration
   file submitted and upload the sample in :file:`.doc` or :file:`.docx` format, and click

>    :guilabel:`Submit Declaration`.

Author: For this one hmm, `TTB01/AC - Thông báo phát hành hóa đơn` is the specific one they need to choose for the invoice issuance actually. In that case, wouldn't literals make more sense here?

Others, I will rectify accordingly!

Vietnam
=======

.. _SInvoice: https://www.sinvoice.vn/

.. _vietnam/configuration:

Configuration
=============

.. _vietnam/configuration/modules:

Modules installation
--------------------

:ref:`Install <general/install>` the following modules to get the latest features of the Vietnamese
localization:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Technical name
      - Description
    * - :guilabel:`Vietnam - Accounting`
      - `l10n_vn`
      - This module includes the default
        :ref:`fiscal localization package <fiscal_localizations/packages>`.
    * - :guilabel:`Vietnam - E-invoicing`
      - `l10n_vn_edi_viettel`
      - This module includes the features required for integration with SInvoice.

.. note::
   When `Vietnam` is selected for a company's :guilabel:`Fiscal Localization`, Odoo automatically
   installs :guilabel:`Vietnam - Accounting` module.

.. _vietnam/configuration/company:

Company configuration
---------------------

> To configure your company information, go to the :guilabel:`Contacts` app, search for your company,
> and select it. Then configure the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure your company information, go to the Contacts app, search for your company, and select
 it. Then configure the following fields:
```

   - Click :guilabel:`Update`.

#. In the :guilabel:`Look up digital certificate` step:

   - To add a digital certificate, click :guilabel:`Add new`.
   - Select the :guilabel:`Branch/Enterprise` and the :guilabel:`Type of digital certificate`, then
     all the required fields for each type.

     - :guilabel:`Supplier`: CloudCA
     - :guilabel:`Signer ID`: CloudCA
     - :guilabel:`Digital Certificate`: CloudCA
     - :guilabel:`How to downlaod file`: HSM
     - :guilabel:`File Upload`: HSM, USB-TOKEN

   - Click :guilabel:`Generate key pair` to generate encryption keys for authentication, then
     :guilabel:`Save` to save.

#. In the :guilabel:`Manage invoice templates` step:

   - Add a new :guilabel:`Invoice template`.
   - Select the :guilabel:`Invoice type` and fill in the :guilabel:`Invoice template code`,
     :guilabel:`Invoice template name` and other optional information if needed.
   - Click :guilabel:`Update`.

.. _vietnam/sinvoice/setup/sinvoice/symbol:

Invoice symbol creation
***********************

On the left side of the main screen, in the :guilabel:`Release management` menu, click
:guilabel:`Invoice symbol` and follow these steps:

>   - Click :guilabel:`Add new`, select the :guilabel:`Invoice template`, set the :guilabel:`Status`
>     to :guilabel:`Active` to activate the symbol, and fill in the :guilabel:`Invoice symbol`.
>   - Check :guilabel:`Stop automatic sending to tax authorities` checkbox and
>     :guilabel:`Default for built-in API` checkbox based on preference.
>   - Click :guilabel:`Save` to save.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click :guilabel:`Add new`, select the :guilabel:`Invoice template`, set the :guilabel:`Status`
  to :guilabel:`Active` to activate the symbol, and fill in the :guilabel:`Invoice symbol`.
- Enable :guilabel:`Stop automatic sending to tax authorities` and
  :guilabel:`Default for built-in API` options based on preference.
- Click :guilabel:`Save`.
```

.. _vietnam/sinvoice/setup/sinvoice/notice:

Invoice issuance notice
***********************

On the left side of the main screen, in the :guilabel:`Release management` menu, click
:guilabel:`Create issuance notice` and follow these steps:

>   - Click :guilabel:`Add new`, select the
>     :guilabel:`Name of the business unit to issue an e-invoice` and the
>     :guilabel:`Tax agency name`. Based on the unit and tax agency selected, :guilabel:`Tax code`,
>     :guilabel:`Address`, :guilabel:`Phone number` and :guilabel:`Separator used` automatically fill
>     in and are ineditable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click :guilabel:`Add new`, select the
  :guilabel:`Name of the business unit to issue an e-invoice` and the
  :guilabel:`Tax agency name`. Based on the business unit and tax agency selected, 
  :guilabel:`Tax code`, :guilabel:`Address`, :guilabel:`Phone number` and 
  :guilabel:`Separator used` automatically fill in and are uneditable.
```

>   - Click :guilabel:`Select the invoice type for issuance`, and then select and fill in the
>     required information below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click :guilabel:`Select the invoice type for issuance`, and then select and fill in the
  required information below:
```

>     - :guilabel:`Invoice type`: The invoice type to declare an issuance notice on
>     - :guilabel:`Invoice template`: Select from the list of items available based on the invoice
>       type
>     - :guilabel:`Symbol`: Select from the list of items available based on the invoice type
>     - :guilabel:`Quantity`: Total number of invoice to issue for the type selected. Based on the
>       type and template selected, the field is filled in automatically but manually adjustable
>     - :guilabel:`Start date of use`: The date from which the invoice template, range and quantity
>       are used with the notice issued in active status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - :guilabel:`Invoice type`: The invoice type on which to declare an issuance notice.
  - :guilabel:`Invoice template`: Select from the list of items available based on the invoice
    type.
  - :guilabel:`Symbol`: Select from the list of items available based on the invoice type.
  - :guilabel:`Quantity`: Total number of invoices to issue for the type selected. Based on the
    type and template selected, the field is filled in automatically but manually adjustable.
  - :guilabel:`Start date of use`: The date from which the invoice template, range, and quantity
    are used with the notice issued in active status.
```

>   - Click :guilabel:`Save` and select more invoice type if necessary by repeating the step above.
>     Once all invoice types to declare are included, click :guilabel:`Save` to finish drafting of
>     the notice. Once ready, click :guilabel:`Send to tax authorities` for an approval. After the
>     approval, :guilabel:`Status` of the notice is changed to :guilabel:`Active`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click :guilabel:`Save` and select more invoice types if necessary by repeating the steps above.
  Then click :guilabel:`Save` to finish drafting the notice. 
- Click :guilabel:`Send to tax authorities` for approval. When it's approved, the notice's
 :guilabel:`Status` is changed to :guilabel:`Active`.
```

     - :guilabel:`Supplier`: CloudCA
     - :guilabel:`Signer ID`: CloudCA
     - :guilabel:`Digital Certificate`: CloudCA
     - :guilabel:`How to download file`: HSM
     - :guilabel:`File Upload`: HSM, USB-TOKEN

   - Click :guilabel:`Generate key pair` to generate encryption keys for authentication, then
     :guilabel:`Save`.

#. In the :guilabel:`Manage invoice templates` step:

   - Add a new :guilabel:`Invoice template`.
   - Select the :guilabel:`Invoice type` and fill in the :guilabel:`Invoice template code`,
     :guilabel:`Invoice template name` and other optional information if needed.
   - Click :guilabel:`Update`.

.. _vietnam/sinvoice/setup/sinvoice/symbol:

Invoice symbol creation
***********************

On the left side of the main screen, in the :guilabel:`Release management` menu, click
:guilabel:`Invoice symbol` and follow these steps:

- Click :guilabel:`Add new`, select the :guilabel:`Invoice template`, set the :guilabel:`Status`
  to :guilabel:`Active` to activate the symbol, and fill in the :guilabel:`Invoice symbol`.
- Enable :guilabel:`Stop automatic sending to tax authorities` and
  :guilabel:`Default for built-in API` options based on preference.

> - Click :guilabel:`Save` to save.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click :guilabel:`Save`.
```

:guilabel:`Canceled`.

.. _vietnam/qrcode:

QR banking codes
================

Vietnamese QR banking is a payment service platform that allows customers to make instant domestic
payments to individuals and merchants in Vietnamese dong via online and mobile banking.

.. _vietnam/qrcode/set-up:

Set-up
------

.. _vietnam/qrcode/set-up/activate:

QR codes activation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings`. Under the
:guilabel:`Customer Payments` section, activate the :guilabel:`QR Codes` feature.
Go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings`. Under the
:guilabel:`Customer Payments` section, activate the :guilabel:`QR Codes` feature.

.. _vietnam/qrcode/set-up/bank:

QR banking account configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the Contacts app, go to :menuselection:`Contacts --> Configuration --> Bank Accounts` and select
the bank account to activate QR banking. Fill in the :guilabel:`Bank Identifier Code` specific to
the bank. Set the :guilabel:`Proxy Type` and fill in the :guilabel:`Proxy Value` field depending on
your chosen type. The :guilabel:`Proxy Type` depends on the information used to identify the

> :guilabel:`Merchant Account`, such as the card number and bank account number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Merchant Account`, such as the card number and bank account numbers.
```
